= Webcheck-ruby

Webcheck-ruby is a simple web site crawler / checker, inspired by the Python program Webcheck[http://arthurdejong.org/webcheck/], currently maintained by Arthur de Jong 

== Features

* fully automated
* identifies broken links
* modular design allows for substitution of HTML link extractor, crawler, and page-validation rules

== Usage

To crawl a web page:

  require 'webcheck'
  results = Webcheck.check("http://example.com")
  print results[:uris404]
  print results[:urisUnknown]
  Webcheck.prettyPrint(results)

The default format of the results is a hash with the following keys

[uris404] Links that returned a 404 error
[uris200] Links that were followed successfully
[urisUnknown] Links that returned an unknown HTTP code. These are in the form of hashes with the keys :code,:uri
[checked] A hash of all the URIs checked. The keys are the URIs
[urisNonHTTP] Links on the page that led to resources not accessed via the HTTP protocol (such as e-mail and FTP)

== Components

[Webcrawler] A recursive crawling tool. At each step, it retrieves a resource from a URL and feeds it to a block. The block yields links to retrieve on subsequent steps.
[ConsistencyChecker] The validation engine. Takes the HTML bodies retrieved by the crawler and determines how to handle each one.
[Linkfinder] A link extraction tool, which takes HTML bodies and extracts URLs from them.

== Dependencies

The Linkfinder uses Nokogiri[http://nokogiri.org] to extract links from web pages.

== Author

Copyright (c) 2010 by {Mark T. Tomczak}[http://fixermark.com], released under the MIT license.
